Firm profile and Organization: 
Ennead Architects is a 200+ person practice based in New York City with offices in Los Angeles and Shanghai. With over 60 years of history, we are internationally recognized for planning and design excellence in our work, which is principally in the public sector for educational, scientific, and cultural institutions. Our diverse portfolio—including new construction, renovation and expansion, historic preservation, interior design and master planning—ranges from museums and performing arts centers to complex laboratory, research, and teaching facilities for higher education to a wastewater treatment plant. 

Mission: 
Ennead was founded on a dedication to civic institutions and the public realm, as they are an essential part of our commitment to extending the reach of design and maximizing its impact. For all of our projects, we focus on creating lasting architecture that plays a significant role in uplifting the human experience, manifesting the value of our clients’ missions, ensuring their futures and creating great civic places in our cities and communities. 

Design Philosophy / Unique Approach: 
We view every project as distinct, each with its own opportunities and challenges. Our design process fosters unique building designs that address the special programmatic, technical and aesthetic issues relevant to each project. We design our work to be tailored to place and the unique environmental conditions of a site. Our success in designing iconic buildings is grounded in our belief that at its best, architecture communicates ideals, reinforces an institution, and acts as an agent of change.

Awards/ Accolades: 
We have been honored with the Firm Award, the American Institute of Architecture’s highest recognition to an architecture studio; the prestigious Smithsonian Institution Cooper-Hewitt National Design Award; and the Medal of Honor by the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter. Our projects have been published extensively and have received numerous awards, includin Life Science — Increasingly, these projects are an intricate mixture of programs, tenants, and civic spaces. Many of Ennead’s buildings in this typology include office space, research cores, vivariums, care centers, retail, amenities for inter-office collaboration, and other civic-focused uses. Select projects include: The Cove at Jersey City, Cambridge Crossing, 441 Morgan Avenue, Jefferson Health, Specialty Care Pavilion; and New York Stem Cell Foundation at Hudson Research Center.  

Research:
The firm has designed over 5.6 million ft2 of state-of-the-art laboratories and collaboration spaces for institutions including Stanford University, University of Michigan, Purdue University, Vassar College, Weill Cornell Medicine, and The University of Texas at Austin.  

Higher Education:
Ennead has created campus-specific and sensitive architecture that responds to existing buildings, patterns of circulation and use, and institutional mission and growth. Our academic clients include: Princeton University, Yale University, Harvard University, New York University, Columbia University, Barnard College, Cornell University, University of Pennsylvania, and University of Oregon.

Master Planning:
For nearly 60 years Ennead has created campus-specific and sensitive architecture that responds to existing buildings, patterns of circulation and use, and institutional mission and growth. 

Mixed-Use & Commercial:
Many of Ennead’s buildings in this typology include libraries, museums, performing arts, educational facilities, care centers, retail, amenities, and other civic-focused uses. Select projects include: Capitol Crossing, Washington DC; The Cove, Jersey City; Riverhouse, One Rockefeller Park.

Life Science:
Ennead has developed expertise in designing highly efficient and productive laboratories for academic, institutional, and commercial life science and research and development laboratories Select projects include: Cambridge Crossing, 441 Morgan Avenue; Stanford University, ChEM-H and Wu-Tsai Neurosciences Institute; Center East, Life Sciences Hub; and Specialty Care Pavilion.

Hotel & Residential:
Ennead has designed both condo and rental residential buildings of varying scale and hotels in dense urban settings, oftentimes in highly sensitive historic or planned districts. Select projects include: The Lane; Riverhouse (the first LEED Gold Residence in New York City); Chelsea Enclave; The Standard, High Line; The Hudson Hotel; The Ritz Carlton, Battery Park.

Performing Arts:
Ennead is regarded as one of the nation’s preeminent designers of spaces for the performing arts. Our work encompasses a range of types and sizes and facilities, including concert halls (Carnegie Hall, New York City Center, Holland Performing Arts Center in Omaha); theaters for major theatrical venues (The New York Shakespeare Festival Joseph Papp Public Theater, The Samuel J. Friedman Theatre for the Manhattan Theatre Club); experimental, black box theaters (Chelsea Theater of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, York College Theater); theaters to accommodate regional and visiting performing arts groups (Center for the Arts Theater at Yerba Buena Gardens, Oklahoma City Civic Center Music Hall, Peter Norton Symphony Space); multi-purpose theaters at academic institutions (Stanford University Bing Concert Hall, Allegheny College Vukovich Center for Communication Arts, Mercersburg Academy Burgin Center for the Arts); and opera houses (The Santa Fe Opera).
 
Museums:
Ennead has collaborated with many of the preeminent museums across the country, including the Yale University Art Gallery, the Brooklyn Museum, the Anderson Collection and the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Center for Visual Arts at Stanford University, the Peabody Essex Museum, the American Museum of Natural History, and several Smithsonian Institution museums in Washington D.C. and New York City.

Healthcare:Ennead has extensive experience working on complex healthcare facilities to create buildings that support technological innovation, safety, and quality for patients, their families, caregivers, and staff.  Our healthcare work includes: Inpatient Care; Ambulatory Care; Cancer Care; Behavioral Health; Strategic & Master Planning; Children’s Hospitals; Translational Research; and Medical Education for clients including Weill Cornell Medicine, NYU Langone Health, The David H. Koch Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and Northwell Health.

Government:
We bring extensive experience working with other federal agencies on projects such as the William J. Clinton Presidential Center, the Smithsonian Institution National Museum of the American Indian Cultural Resources Center, the Smithsonian Institution Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, and GSA Harrisburg Federal Courthouse. We are recognized for design excellence in creating formally compelling and functionally efficient buildings for public institutions.
