Firm Profile 1: 
Ennead Architects is a design firm of 200+ architects, designers, and thinkers with offices in New York and Shanghai. Since the firm’s founding in 1963, we have partnered with industry, institutions, and governments to create architecture that shapes the public realm. We are led by Eight Partners who push a multi-disciplinary ethos centered around capturing knowledge and understanding lessons learned across all typologies, for the betterment of our planning, design, and delivery.
We harness our creative energies across a range of building types: from complex laboratory, research, teaching, and healthcare facilities to museums and performing arts centers; from large-scale infrastructure projects and urban plans to hospitality, residential, and commercial buildings.
Our focus is on creating iconic architecture grounded in our belief that, at its best, design communicates ideals, reinforces institutions and acts as an agent of positive change. We work to create projects which are a reflection of the aspirational goals of our clients and their communities.

Firm Profile 2: 
We create architecture that shapes the public realm; this has been central to our practice since 1963. We are known for projects ranging from museums and performing arts centers to complex laboratory, research and teaching facilities for higher education, from large-scale infrastructure projects and urban plans to hotels and residential and commercial buildings. The designs have been acclaimed for their formal and affective power, for technical virtuosity, for sustainable design, for their significant contributions to the cultural life of their communities and the enhancement of their physical contexts. We are committed to the transformative development of integrated architectural solutions and, in partnership with our project teams, approach inherent challenges as opportunities to enhance vital connections to the natural and social environments.
The creation of sustainable architecture is fundamental to our practice, and principles of sustainable design inform all our work. Since the inception of our practice, we have been committed to the design of integrated architectural solutions that create healthy environments, conserve resources and restore natural ecosystems. Sustainable design is an essential objective from the early planning stages of a project. Passive and active sustainable design strategies—including project siting and solar orientation, high-performance building envelopes, energy-efficient systems and responsible construction techniques—are given equal weight with aesthetic, economic, and programmatic issues from the outset of the design process.
Our 200+ person studio is based in New York City with offices in Shanghai and Los Angeles. Eight partners share responsibility for the vision and operation of the studio: V. Guy Maxwell, Kevin McClurkan, Molly McGowan, Richard Olcott, Tomas Rossant, Peter Schubert, Don Weinreich and Thomas Wong. Our professional services include new building design, renovation and expansion, historic preservation, interior design, programming and master planning as well as pre-design advisory services and professional counsel to public and private institutions and government agencies in connection with strategic planning.

Government: 
Ennead creates architecture that shapes the public realm. Our civic projects range from embassies to courthouses to major city infrastructure. The designs of these buildings integrate the latest technology and systems, address specific functional criteria, and exemplify civic purpose and responsibility. They activate their surroundings and nurture a sense of community through the inclusion of essential public space.
In our more than 60-year practice we have collaborated with government, cultural, civic, educational, and commercial clients, including some of the most venerable institutions nationally and globally. We create lasting architecture that plays a significant role in advancing the needs of institutions and symbolizes the importance of the services that governments provide to their citizens. Most of our work is in urban contexts, where advancing our clients’ missions is blended with the creation of civic space for the benefit of the community.

Education: 
Ennead’s comprehensive portfolio of education work has redefined learning spaces – from kindergarten to graduate school – with bespoke environments that establish a unique sense of place, inspire student development, promote collaboration across disciplines, and strengthen connections within the classroom and to the broader community.
For over 60 years Ennead has created campus-specific and sensitive architecture that responds to existing buildings, patterns of circulation and use, and institutional mission and growth. Our projects for academic institutions have been many and varied, both in terms of building and project type. Each project is distinguished by our approach, which seeks to create a distinctive sense of place uniquely suited to the goals of the institution. Our academic clients include: Princeton University, Yale University, Harvard University, New York University, Columbia University, Barnard College, Stanford University, Cornell University, University of Pennsylvania, University of Michigan, The Ohio State University, University of Oregon, Arizona State University, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Syracuse University, Smith College, Sarah Lawrence College, and Williams College. Our extensive experience underscores the firm’s ability to respond to the constituencies involved in the design of buildings for academic institutions and to build consensus among them 

Commercial & Mixed Use: 
We have designed a wide range of commercial and mixed-use projects situated in dense urban settings, oftentimes in highly sensitive historic or planned districts. These projects extend beyond their program to engage their surrounding context and improve the urban fabric of their precincts.
Mixed-Use & Commercial—Increasingly, these projects are an intricate mixture of programs, tenants and civic spaces. Many of Ennead’s buildings in this typology include libraries, museums, performing arts, educational facilities, care centers, retail, amenities, and other civic-focused uses. Select projects include: Capitol Crossing, Washington DC; The Cove, Jersey City; Riverhouse, One Rockefeller Park.  
Workplace—Good commercial office and corporate headquarters projects are at once an expression of a company’s identity and aspirations as well as an efficient and productive interior program and work-solution. We work to create architecture that enhances the identity of our clients. Select projects include: Byte Dance, Houhai Center; Huawei Wuhan R&D Campus; WGBH Public Broadcasting Station Headquarters.
Hotel & Residential—Ennead has designed both condo and rental residential buildings of varying scale and hotels in dense urban settings, oftentimes in highly sensitive historic or planned districts. Our 60 years of experience lends itself to projects with high leasability and timeless amenities. Select projects include: The Lane; Riverhouse (the first LEED Gold Residence in New York City); Chelsea Enclave; The Standard, High Line; The Hudson Hotel; The Ritz Carlton Battery Park City.

Laboratories: 
Ennead’s diverse and renown portfolio of laboratory buildings for scientific research, teaching, and innovation has helped to define many of the leading trends in state-of-the-art laboratory design. Unique to our integrated design approach is an emphasis on utilizing architecture to improve the quality of the working environment, and creating vibrant research communities where investigation, invention and impact can thrive.
Historically research buildings have been driven by function, efficiency and flexibility; our laboratories go beyond these goals to create connections across disciplines, opportunities for business and innovation, and moments of public engagement.
The firm has designed over 5.6 million square feet of state-of-the-art laboratories and collaboration spaces for institutions including the University of Michigan, Purdue University, Vassar College, Weill Cornell Medicine, The University of Texas at Austin and Stanford University. Each design opportunity is unique. Ennead’s approach combines tenacity, technical virtuosity, empathy, joy, and an unwavering commitment to engage the intellect and the senses in the experience of architecture. We challenge perceptions, preconceptions and aspirations. We reveal possibilities, take advantage of unexpected opportunities, and find truths that we are not necessarily looking for. With fresh perspective and active dialogue, we craft singular, elegant responses to the design problem: buildings whose contextual appropriateness, constructive logic, and visual and experiential richness are profoundly transformative.

Cultural & Performing Arts: 
Ennead has a long history of designing for the cultural sector and partnering with leading institutions to create spaces that enrich and enhance the visitor experience. From museums to concert halls, Ennead has deep expertise in the technical, social, and experiential requirements for world-class cultural and performing arts venues. Our award-winning buildings engage and embrace the public, delight artists and performers, and optimize the experience and enjoyment of the arts.

Museums: 
Ennead’s significant portfolio of museums informs our view that museums are complex organisms, which must accommodate many discrete and specific purposes. They must welcome the public, while securing the art within; they must captivate their audiences and be unflinching in their efficient functionality; and they must provide powerful narratives that touch the individual yet remain approachable to all. We know how to think holistically about the diverse components, how to plan realistically for achievable results within limited budgets, and how architecture can help leverage a museum’s resources to expand its capabilities and ultimately its reputation. 
Over the years, we have collaborated with many of the preeminent museums across the country, including the Yale University Art Gallery, the Brooklyn Museum, the Anderson Collection and the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Center for Visual Arts at Stanford University, the Peabody Essex Museum, the American Museum of Natural History, and several Smithsonian Institution museums in Washington D.C. and New York City.

Performing Arts: 
Known as one of the nation’s preeminent designers of spaces for the performing arts, Ennead brings innovative, memorable, and sustainable architecture to public institutions. Our work encompasses a range of types and sizes and facilities within restricted as well as liberal budgets. 
We have created concert halls (Carnegie Hall, New York City Center, Holland Performing Arts Center in Omaha); theaters for major theatrical venues (The New York Shakespeare Festival Joseph Papp Public Theater, The Samuel J. Friedman Theatre for the Manhattan Theatre Club); experimental, black box theaters (Chelsea Theater of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, York College Theater); theaters to accommodate regional and visiting performing arts groups (Center for the Arts Theater at Yerba Buena Gardens, Oklahoma City Civic Center Music Hall, Peter Norton Symphony Space); multi-purpose theaters at academic institutions (Stanford University Bing Concert Hall, Allegheny College Vukovich Center for Communication Arts, Mercersburg Academy Burgin Center for the Arts); and opera houses (The Santa Fe Opera).

Healthcare:
Ennead’s architecture transforms institutions. Our buildings advance institutional missions while they telegraph institutional identity. We partner with healthcare providers to create new human-centered environments that change the way care is delivered and experienced. Our buildings are designed to support technological innovation, safety, and quality for patients, their families, caregivers, and staff. We believe healthcare facilities should aspire to be civic places that connect to the surrounding city, extending the notion of care and supporting healthy communities.
Our buildings for Healthcare are dynamic, welcoming spaces that engage their context and contribute actively to the life of their neighborhood and city.
We partner with healthcare providers to create human-centered environments that enhance the way care is delivered and experienced. Our buildings are designed to support technological innovation, safety, and quality for patients, their families, caregivers, and staff.
Our design process is built around stakeholders re-thinking identity, process, and experience, and each initiative is an opportunity to imagine and implement new and better models of care. We create strategies for sustainability and resilience, focusing on the reduction of energy costs and carbon, and design for community, access, and equity.
By balancing the needs of care teams with those of patients and visitors, we create spaces that empower patients, engender meaningful connections among users and improve the quality of care.
Design has the power to enhance the social, emotional and mental wellbeing of a healthcare community.
The patient experience is at the core of our approach. Competition to meet rising consumer expectations for experience, convenience and amenities are driving new standards for facility design. As the paradigm of where care is delivered shifts, beginning at home and continuing in clinics, hospitals, wellness centers and virtual communities, our focus is on establishing key touchpoints in the patient journey from arrival to discharge. Our goal is to provide an uncomplicated, calming progression that reduces stress and anxiety and leads to improved care outcomes. 
Thoughtful design gives patients choices as to how they engage with their surroundings and care providers. Within clinical settings, clear wayfinding can instill a sense of security, enabling patients to effectively navigate their own courses of care. Establishing different spaces for varied levels of activity can meet users’ wide-ranging clinical, social and reflective needs. Integrating digital systems at multiple scales can further increase patient engagement and satisfaction.
We design healthcare facilities for maximum resiliency in the face of continually evolving systems and physical environments. Flexible programs, operations, and infrastructure allow providers to respond nimbly to both opportunities and threats.
External challenges to providers can be regulatory in nature, like the expansion of site neutrality, or market-driven, such as the closure of a nearby competitor. Challenges may also come from acute environmental threats due to climate change and related extreme weather, including the increasing risk of hurricane-strength storms, flooding, high speed winds, and the subsequent loss of utility power. Facilities must be planned and constructed to respond to these potential hazards. Our strategies for sustainability and resilience focus on business continuity, reduction of energy costs and carbon, and design for community, access, and equity.
Our design process is human-centered. Each building reflects the values and aspirations of the community it serves and is rooted in cultural and historical context.  We create buildings that not only reflect institutional identity but also provide for unique programs and amenities, as determined by our engagement process. These have included food distribution, cultural arts, education, holistic wellness and fitness, in addition to patient care spaces.
Our master plans align health system strategies with real estate assets to provide the right care in the right facility and setting. We untangle dense medical centers that have grown opportunistically to unlock development opportunities. Our goal is to create a framework that informs real estate decisions on an ongoing basis, allowing institutions to better assess sites small and large.
Our medical campus planning practice draws from our integrated strategies for sustainability and resilience. By establishing efficiencies through campus planning and integration, we create high-performance, mission-critical facilities.
